>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR:
ANOTHER HORRIFIC ACT OF GUN
VIOLENCE AS A SHOOTER OPENS FIRE
INSIDE A MOVIE THEATER IN
LOUSIANA, KILLING TWO.
DEFINING A "COMMON SENSE"
APPROACH TO GUNS IN AMERICA.
THEN, MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS ON RESISTANCE IN CONGRESS
FOR THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL, CALLS
FOR MORE INVESTIGATION INTO
HILLARY CLINTON'S EMAILS AND
DONALD TRUMP'S APPEAL TO
CONSERVATIVE VOTERS.
PLUS, MODERN ROMANCE.
COMEDIAN AZIZ ANSARI EXPLORES
THE HUMOR BEHIND THE PAINS OF
DATING IN THE DIGITAL AGE.
>> SOME PEOPLE THAT DO ONLINE
DATING ARE VERY TRUSS TRAITING.
YOU GO AND -- FRUSTRATING,
THEY'RE JUST VAST QUANTITY OF
LOVE THAT IN THE WORLD THAT
WOULDN'T EXIST IF NOT FOR THESE
AREAS.
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: POLICE ARE
SEARCHING R A FOMOTIVE, AFTER
LAST NIGHT'S SHOOTING AT A
LOUISIANA MOVIE THEATER.
AUTHORITIES SAY 59-YEAR-OLD JOHN
RUSSEL HOUSER KILLED TWO AND
INJURED NINE OTHERS, BEFORE
KILLING HIMSELF.
COURT DOCUMENTS FROM YEARS AGO
SHOWED HOUSER WAS MENTALLY ILL
AND PRONE TO VIOLENCE, TO THE
EXTENT HE WAS HOSPITALIZED
AGAINST HIS WILL AND HIS WIFE
HID HIS GUNS.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE SHOOTING-
- PLUS A BROADER LOOK AT GUN
VIOLENCE IN AMERICA-- AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
TURKISH FIGHTER JETS BOMBED
ISLAMIC STATE TARGETS IN SYRIA
TODAY, IN RETALIATION FOR AN
ISIS ATTACK ON A TURKISH
MILITARY OUTPOST YESTERDAY.
IT'S THE FIRST TIME THE
COUNTRY'S MILITARY HAS ENGAGED
IN DIRECT COMBAT WITH THE
MILITANTS.
TURKISH FORCES ALSO STEPPED UP
PATROLS ALONG THE SYRIAN BORDER.
AND POLICE DETAINED NEARLY 300
PEOPLE THEY LABELED "EXTREMIST"
ACROSS THE COUNTRY IN EARLY
MORNING RAIDS.
TURKEY'S PRESIDENT SAID THE
ESCALATION IS NECESSARY.
ESCALATION IS NECESSARY. >> (
translated): OUR STATE
AND
>> (translated): OUR
STATE AND GOVERNMENT WILL TAKE
NEEDED
GOVERNMENT WILL TAKE NEEDED
ACTION AGAINST ANY ATTACK NO
MATTER WHAT IT IS.
IT IS NOT ONLY FOR LAST NIGHT.
WE WILL TAKE THE NECESSARY
PRECAUTIONS FOR OUR NATION'S
SECURITY AND PEACE.
LAST NIGHT WAS THE START OF
THIS, AND WE WILL KEEP GOING ON
THE SAME WAY.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. IS
EXPECTED TO STEP UP ITS
AIRSTRIKES ON ISLAMIC STATE
TARGETS, TOO.
TURKEY IS LETTING IT USE
MULTIPLE AIR BASES IN THE
SOUTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY FOR
OPERATIONS AGAINST THE
MILITANTS.
THE PENTAGON ANNOUNCED A U.S.
AIRSTRIKE IN AFGHANISTAN HAS
KILLED A SENIOR AL-QAEDA
OPERATIONAL COMMANDER.
ABU KHALIL AL-SUDANI WAS HEAD OF
AL-QAEDA'S "SUICIDE AND
EXPLOSIVES OPERATIONS" AND HAS
BEEN LINKED TO PLOTS TO ATTACK
U.S. TARGETS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ARRIVED IN KENYA
AS PART OF HIS TWO-NATION TOUR
OF AFRICA.
HE TOUCHED DOWN LATE TODAY IN
THE CAPITAL CITY OF NAIROBI.
IT'S HIS FIRST PRESIDENTIAL
VISIT TO HIS FATHER'S HOMELAND
AND HE MET WITH MEMBERS OF HIS
FAMILY FOR DINNER.
MR. OBAMA WILL ALSO MEET WITH
KENYA'S PRESIDENT AND CO-HOST A
BUSINESS SUMMIT BEFORE LEAVING
FOR ETHIOPIA ON SUNDAY.
AND IN BURUNDI, RESULTS FROM THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION WERE
ANNOUNCED, WITH THE INCUMBENT
WINNING A THIRD TERM.
PRESIDENT PIERRE NKURUNZIZA
CLAIMED VICTORY IN THE DISPUTED
ELECTION, EVEN AMID UNREST OVER
WHETHER OR NOT HIS THIRD TERM IS
CONSTITUTIONAL.
BALLOT COUNTING STARTED ON
TUESDAY, AND BOTH THE U.S. AND
BRITAIN CONDEMNED THE VOTE
BECAUSE OF VIOLENCE,
INTIMIDATION AND QUESTIONS OVER
THE LEGITIMACY OF A THIRD TERM.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, ANTHEM IS
BUYING CIGNA TO CREATE THE
NATION'S LARGEST HEALTH INSURER
BY THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
ENROLLED.
THE MERGED COMPANIES WOULD COVER
ABOUT 53 MILLION AMERICANS.
THE DEAL CARRIES A PRICE TAG OF
$48 BILLION.
IT FOLLOWS A BUYOUT FRENZY THAT
STARTED EARLIER THIS MONTH WITH
AETNA'S SUCCESSFUL BID FOR
HUMANA.
FIAT CHRYSLER HAS ANNOUNCED A
RECALL OVER FEARS SOME OF ITS
VEHICLES CAN BE HACKED REMOTELY.
THE COMPANY IS RECALLING ABOUT
1.4 MILLION CARS AND TRUCKS,
INCLUDING 2014 AND 2015 JEEP
GRAND CHEROKEES AND DODGE
DURANGO S.U.V.'S.
THE MOVE COMES AFTER CYBER
SECURITY RESEARCHERS WERE ABLE
TO TAKE CONTROL OF A JEEP OVER
THE INTERNET.
THE COMPANY SAYS IT WILL UPDATE
SOFTWARE TO PREVENT HACKING.
THERE WERE NEW SIGNS TODAY OF A
SLOWDOWN IN THE REAL ESTATE
MARKET.
THE COMMERCE DEPARTMENT REPORTED
NEW HOME SALES HAVE FALLEN TO A
SEVEN-MONTH LOW.
THAT SETBACK HELPED PUSH STOCKS
LOWER AGAIN ON WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 163 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,568.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN 57
POINTS AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED
22 POINTS.
FOR THE WEEK: THE DOW LOST
NEARLY 3%, THE NASDAQ FELL 2.3%
AND THE S&P 500 SLID 2.2%.
THE U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS
WEIGHING A REQUEST TO LOOK INTO
THE POSSIBILITY HILLARY CLINTON
MISHANDLED CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION WHEN SHE WAS
SECRETARY OF STATE.
IT CENTERED ON HER USE OF A
PRIVATE EMAIL ACCOUNT.
A MEMO FROM THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY FOUND SOME OF THE
EMAILS SHE SENT POTENTIALLY
SHOULD HAVE BEEN CLASSIFIED, BUT
NONE WERE.
SPEAKING FROM THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL
TODAY IN NEW YORK, CLINTON
WARNED REPORTING ON THE STORY
WAS FILLED WITH INACCURACIES.
>> MAYBE THE HEAT IS GETTING TO
EVERYBODY.
WE ALL HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO
GET THIS RIGHT.
I HAVE RELEASED 55,000 PAGES OF
EMAILS, I HAVE SAID REPEATEDLY
THAT I WILL ANSWER QUESTIONS
BEFORE THE HOUSE COMMITTEE.
WE ARE ALL ACCOUNTABLE TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE TO GET THE FACTS
RIGHT AND I WILL DO MY PART.
>> Woodruff: REPUBLICAN
REPRESENTATIVE TREY GOWDY-- THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE SPECIAL HOUSE
COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING CLINTON
AND HER INVOLVEMENT IN THE
RESPONSE TO THE 2012 ATTACKS IN
BENGHAZI, LIBYA-- SAID HANDING
OVER E-MAILS ISN'T ENOUGH.
THE COMMITTEE WANTS HER COMPUTER
SERVER FOR FORENSIC EVALUATION.
THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
GAVE THE GREEN LIGHT TO A NEW,
BREAKTHROUGH CHOLESTEROL
MEDICATION.
THE INJECTABLE DRUG CALLED
PRALUENT IS SAID TO LOWER BAD
CHOLESTEROL MORE THAN OLDER
MEDICINES THAT HAVE BEEN
PRESCRIBED FOR DECADES.
STILL, EXPERTS HAVE RAISED
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE DRUG'S HIGH
PRICE TAG AND LONG-TERM
BENEFITS.
THE F.D.A. ALSO PROPOSED TODAY
NEW LABELING RULES FOR ADDED
SUGAR TODAY.
UNDER THE PROPOSAL, FOOD
COMPANIES WOULD NEED TO INDICATE
THE AMOUNT OF ADDED SUGAR
AS A PERCENTAGE OF A PERSON'S
RECOMMENDED DAILY INTAKE.
THE MOVE IS PART OF AN OVERHAUL
OF THE NUTRITION FACTS LABEL
LAID OUT BY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
AND DON OBERDORFER, A LONGTIME
DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENT FOR
"THE WASHINGTON POST," HAS DIED.
HE HAD ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE.
OBERDORFER SPENT 25 YEARS AT
"THE POST," COVERING EVERYTHING
FROM THE VIETNAM WAR TO THE FALL
OF THE SOVIET UNION BEFORE
RETIRING IN 1993.
OVER HIS CAREER, HE TRAVELED TO
MORE THAN 50 COUNTRIES AND
APPEARED OFTEN ON THE NEWSHOUR.
DON OBERDORFER WAS 84 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
A LOOK AT GUN VIOLENCE IN
AMERICA, FOR-PROFIT COLLEGES AND
THE TAX PAYER MONEY DESIGNED TO
EDUCATE OUR VETERANS, MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON THE
IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL AND MORE, AND
COMEDIAN AZIZ ANSARI ON MODERN
ROMANCE.
WE TAKE A DEEPER LOOK NOW AT
LAST NIGHT'S DEADLY SHOOTING IN
LOUISIANA AND THE BROADER
QUESTIONS RAISED AFTER TRAGEDIES
INVOLVING GUNS.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM STARTS US OFF.
>> Reporter: POLICE AND
EMERGENCY RESPONDERS QUICKLY
DESCENDED ON THE MOVIE THEATER
AFTER GUNFIRE ERUPTED DURING A
SHOWING LAST NIGHT OF THE COMEDY
"TRAINWRECK".
>> WE WERE BUYING POPCORN AT THE
CONCESSION STAND WHEN A WHOLE
GROUP OF PEOPLE, TEENAGERS
MAINLY, RUNNING OUT, TELLING
EVERYONE TO RUN FOR THEIR LIFE.
AND THEN WE SAW A LADY WITH
BLOOD ALL OVER HER LEG.
I JUST GRABBED MY CHILD, I MEAN,
WE JUST ALL RAN.
>> Reporter: THE GUNMAN--
IDENTIFIED AS 59-YEAR-OLD JOHN
RUSSEL HOUSER-- OPENED FIRE ON
THE CROWD JUST 20 MINUTES INTO
THE FILM.
INVESTIGATORS THIS MORNING
CHARACTERIZED HOUSER AS A
DRIFTER.
>> IT IS APPARENT THAT HE WAS
INTENT ON SHOOTING AND THEN
ESCAPING.
WHAT HAPPENED IS THAT THE QUICK
LAW ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE FORCED
HIM BACK INTO THE THEATER, AT
WHICH TIME HE SHOT HIMSELF.
>> Reporter: COURT PAPERS FROM
2008 REVEALED THAT HOUSER'S
FAMILY HAD FILED A TEMPORARY
RESTRAINING ORDER AGAINST HIM,
SAYING HE WAS VIOLENT AND
MENTALLY ILL.
THE COURT FILING ALSO STATED
HOUSER'S WIFE KELLIE-- WHO FILED
FOR DIVORCE IN MARCH-- HAD
REMOVED ALL THE WEAPONS FROM
THEIR HOUSE OUT OF CONCERN OVER
HIS MENTAL STATE.
OFFICIALS TODAY SAID HOUSER HAD
BEEN DENIED A CONCEALED-WEAPONS
PERMIT IN 2006 BECAUSE OF AN
ARSON ARREST AND DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE COMPLAINT.
LAST NIGHT'S TRAGEDY COMES IN
THE WAKE OF TWO OTHER, RECENT
HIGH-PROFILE MASS SHOOTINGS:
FOUR MARINES AND A SAILOR WERE
KILLED IN CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE
LAST WEEK AND IN JUNE, NINE
MEMBERS OF EMANUEL A.M.E. CHURCH
IN CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA
WERE KILLED DURING AN EVENING
BIBLE STUDY.
THE F.B.I. TODAY SAID SUSPECT
DYLAN ROOF SHOULD'VE BEEN
BLOCKED FROM BUYING THE GUN USED
IN THAT ATTACK, BUT THE
BACKGROUND CHECK SYSTEM FAILED
TO PICK UP ON ROOF'S PREVIOUS
NARCOTICS CHARGE.
AT THE SCENE OF THE LAFAYETTE
SHOOTING TODAY, STATE
REPRESENTATIVE TERRY LANDRY
CALLED FOR STRICTER GUN CONTROL.
>> IT IS OUR JOB AS LEGISLATORS
TO CLOSE THE LOOP HOLES IN TSEHE
GUN LAWS.
WHEN PERSON WITH MENTAL CAPACITY
OR NOT MENTALLY STABLE CAN GET
ACCESS TO A GUN AND WREAK HAVOC
ON OUR COMMUNITY, IT TELLS WE
HAVE TO HAVE A SERIOUS
CONVERSATION, WE HAVE TO HAVE
SOME SERIOUS REPEALS IN THE GUN
RESTRICTIONS OR LACK OF GUN
RESTRICTIONS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
IF NOT WE'LL BE MEETING
SOMEWHERE ANOTHER DAY ANOTHER
TIME.
>> Reporter: BACK IN 2013,
PRESIDENT OBAMA MOUNTED AN
AMBITIOUS EFFORT TO OVERHAUL THE
NATION'S GUN LAWS.
THAT PUSH FOLLOWED TWO
TRAGEDIES: THE 2011 TUCSON
SHOOTING AT AN EVENT FOR THEN-
U.S. REPRESENTATIVEABRI GELLE
GIFFORDS AND THE 2012 RAMPAGE IN
NEWTOWN, CONNECTICUT, WHERE 20
CHILDREN AND SIX ADULTS WERE
MURDERED.
BUT ULTIMATELY, THE PRESIDENT'S
PROPOSALS FAILED IN THE U.S.
SENATE.
YESTERDAY, IN AN INTERVIEW WITH
THE B.B.C. JUST HOURS BEFORE THE
LAFAYETTE SHOOTING, THE
PRESIDENT SAID HE INTENDED TO
KEEP PUSHING FOR GUN CONTROL.
>> IF YOU ASK ME WHERE THE ONE
AREA WHERE I FEEL I'VE BEEN THE
MOST FRUSTRATED AND MOST
STYMIED, IT IS THE FACT THAT THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IS THE
ONE ADVANCED NATION ON EARTH IN
WHICH WE DO NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT
COMMON-SENSE, GUN-SAFETY LAWS.
EVEN IN THE FACE OF REPEATED
MASS KILLINGS.
>> Reporter: TODAY'S CALLS FOR A
REFORM OF THE NATION'S GUN LAWS
COME AMID THE ONGOING SENTENCING
PHASE IN THE TRIAL OF JAMES
HOLMES, WHO KILLED 12 PEOPLE AND
INJURED OVER 70 IN A SHOOTING
RAMPAGE AT A MOVIE THEATER IN
AURORA, COLORADO BACK IN 2012.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
WILLIAM BRANGHAM.
>> Woodruff: MASS SHOOTINGS MAKE
UP A SMALL FRACTION OF OVERALL
GUN VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY, BUT
THE F.B.I. COUNTED MORE THAN 170
CASES OF MASS KILLINGS BETWEEN
2006 AND 2011.
"USA TODAY" HAS BEEN TRACKING
THOSE CASES AND THE CONNECTION
WITH GUNS.
MEGHAN HOYER IS A DATA REPORTER
THEIR REPORTING TEAM FOUND THE
OFFICIAL COUNT IS UNDERSTATED.
MEGHAN HOYER IS A DATA REPORTER
AND SHE JOINS US NOW.
MEGHAN WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU ABOUT.
>> DEFINE WHAT YOU MEAN BY MASS
KILLING.
>> A MASS KILLING IS BASICALLY
FOUR OR MORE DEAD NOT INCLUDING
THE SHOOTER.
AND THAT'S THE FBI'S ORIGINAL
DEFINITION.
Woodruff: SO TECHNICALLY WHAT
HAPPENED LAST NIGHT IN LOUISIANA
WOULDN'T BE CONSIDERED A MASS
KILLING?
>> THAT MIGHT BE CONSIDERED A
MASS SHOOTING NOT A MASS
KILLING.
WE ARE INTERESTED IN THE FOUR OR
MORE DEAD.
Woodruff: WHAT HAVE YOU
LEARNED ABOUT THE PEOPLE WHO DO
THOSE SHOOTS, WHO ARE THEY?
>> SURE.
THEY'RE OVERWHELMINGLY MALE.
97% OF THE CASES THEY'RE MEN.
THEIR AVERAGE AGE IS ABOUT 30
BUT IT REALLY RANGES.
WE HAD TEENAGERS TO OLDER
ADULTS.
MEN TEND TO USE MORE GUNS.
WOMEN TEND TO KILL THIS OTHER
WAYS.
ARSON, DROWNINGS THINGS LIKE
THAT.
Woodruff: AND WHAT DID YOU
LEARN ABOUT THE CIRCUMSTANCES?
ABOUT WHO THE VICTIMS ARE, HOW
THESE THINGS -- OR IS THERE A
PATTERN?
>> THERE'S NOT NECESSARILY A
PATTERN BUT THERE ARE CERTAIN
THINGS THAT STAND OUT.
MORE THAN 50% ARE
FAMILY-RELATED.
SO -- AND IN --
Woodruff: MORE THAN 50%?
>> MORE THAN 50%.
IN WELL MORE THAN 50% OF THE
CASES THE VICTIM KNOW THEIR
SHOOTER.
STRANGER ON STRANGE ARE CRIME,
THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN VERY MUCH,
ONLY ABOUT 15% OF THE KILLINGS.
THE VAST MAJORITY ARE FAMILY
CASES INSIDE THE HOME.
Woodruff: AND IN FACT WHAT WE
SAW IN THE LAST WEEK KILLINGS
THAT DIDN'T GET THE KIND OF
PUBLIC COMMENT THAT DIDN'T GET
THE OF -- THE PUBLICITY, THERE
WERE --
>> 75 MASS KILLINGS THIS WEEK
DOESN'T INCLUDE THE SHOOTING IN
THE THEATER LAST NIGHT.
AGAIN, THE MAJORITY OF THOSE
WERE FAMILY KILLINGS.
A FAMILY FOUND DEAD IN MODESTO A
WOMAN AND HER CHILDREN.
A FAMILY IN OKLAHOMA WHERE TWO
TEENAGERS HAVE BEEN ARRESTED AND
THE REST OF THEIR FAMILY HAS --
WAS STABBED.
Woodruff: AND AGAIN THESE ARE
THE KINDS OF THINGS THAT OFTEN
DON'T GET THE KIND OF ATTENTION?
>> RIGHT, THEY DON'T GE GET THE
NATIONAL BUZZ.
>> WHAT DID YOU LEARN ABOUT THE
GUNS WHETHER THEY ARE GOTTEN
LEGALLY OR NOT?
>> IN TERMS OF MASS KILLINGS,
ABOUT THREE QUARTERS, A QUARTER
OF THEM ARE NOT GUN RELATED AT
ALL.
OF THE GUN KILLINGS, WHAT WE'VE
SEEN ARE THAT MOST GUNS ARE
HANDGUNS.
THEY ARE NOT THESE HIGH CAPACITY
ASSAULT RIFLES OR HIGH CAPACITY
ASSAULT WEAPONS THAT WE HEAR SO
MUCH ABOUT.
WE LOOKED A LITTLE BIT LEGAL
VERSUS NONLEGAL ACQUISITION.
AND IN A MAJORITY OF CASES
THEY'RE ACQUIRED LEGALLY.
AND EVEN IN CASES WHERE THEY'RE
NOT WHAT EXPERTS SAY IS THESE
ARE PEOPLE WHO TEND TO BE VERY
DETERMINED AND WHERE THERE'S A
WILL THERE'S A WAY.
EVEN IF THEY HAVE BEEN BANNED
FROM GETTING GUNS, IF THEY HAVE
PRIOR RECORD, GENERALLY THEY
FIND A WAY TO FIND A WEAPON.
Woodruff: MEGHAN HOYER WITH
U.S.A. TODAY.
WE THANK YOU.
GS.
>> THANK YOU JUDY.
NOW WE BEGIN A SERIES OF
CONVERSATIONS WE'RE CALLING
"GUNS IN AMERICA."
WE WILL TALK WITPEOPH LE
INTIMATELY INVOLVED IN THE
DEBATE, COMING TO IT FROM A
VARIETY OF PERSPECTIVES.
TONIGHT WE HEAR FROM RETIRED
NASA ASTRONAUT AND NAVY COMBAT
VETERAN, MARK KELLY.
HIS WIFE, FORMER CONGRESSWOMAN
GABRIELLE GIFFORDS, WAS SEVERELY
WOUNDED AFTER BEING SHOT IN THE
HEAD AT AN EVENT IN TUCSON,
ARIZONA IN JANUARY 2011.
GABBY GIFFORDS CONTINUES TO
RECOVER FROM THE SHOOTING.
IN THE WAKE OF THE TRAGEDY AT
SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL,
THEY FOUNDED AMERICANS FOR
RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS AS A WAY
TO BRING ATTENTION TO WAYS TO
MAKE OUR COMMUNITIES SAFER.
CAPTAIN KELLY, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME JUDY.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ALL THE DETAILS
ABOUT THIS SHOOTING INCIDENT
LAST NIGHT IN LAFAYETTE,
LOUISIANA BUT KNOWING WHAT YOU
KNOW YOUR BACKGROUND ON THIS HOW
DO YOU RESPOND TO SOMETHING LIKE
THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK, YOU KNOW, A
LOGICAL RESPONSE IS THAT WE HAVE
A LOT OF GUN VOYAGES IN THIS
COUNTRY.
WE HAVE -- GUN VIOLENCE IN THIS
WE HAVE OVER 30,000 PEOPLE DIE
FROM GUN VIOLENCE EVERY YEAR.
IN STATES THAT HAVE THE WEAKEST
GUN LAWS WE TEND TO HAVE MORE
GUN VIOLENCE AND CONGRESS IS
PERFECTLY CAPABLE OF DOING
SOMETHING ABOUT IT BUT THEY
CHOOSE NOT O.
AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT, YOU
KNOW, PEOPLE SHOULD DEMAND.
THEY SHOULD DEMAND ACTION
BECAUSE UNLESS WE MAKE CHANGES
TO OUR LAWS AND CHANGES TO EASY
ACCESS FOR FELONS DOMESTIC
ABUSERS PEOPLE WHO ARE MENTALLY
ILL, WE WILL CONTINUE TO SEE
THIS VERY HIGH RATE OF GUN
VIOLENCE.
Woodruff: WHAT KINDS OF THINGS
SHOULD BE DONE?
WHAT WE DO KNOW ABOUT THIS
SHOOTER IN LOUISIANA IS HE DID
HAVE SOME SORT OF CRIMINAL
BACKGROUND.
HE WAS DENIED ACCESS, HE WASN'T
ALLOWED TO BUY OR GET A
CONCEAL-CARRY PERMIT BUT WHAT
KINDS OF CHANGES NEED TO BE
MADE?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL I DON'T
KNOW ALL THE DETAILS.
AND I THINK IT WILL TAKE SEVERAL
DAYS TO COME OUT WHETHER OR NOT
HE WAS A CONVICTED FELON.
YOU KNOW THAT SHOULD BE PRETTY
CLEAR THAT WE SHOULDN'T ALLOW
CONVICTED FELONS TO GET ACCESS
TO GUNS OR DOMESTIC ABUSERS OR
PEOPLE WHO ARE DANGEROUSLY
MENTALLY ILL.
IF HE FELL INTO ONE OF THOSE
CATEGORIES IN THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA WHEREVER HE HAD WAS
ABLE TO GET THIS GUN FROM IF
THEY KNEW ABOUT IT THEN WE'VE
GOT TO LOOK AS TO WHY.
MAYBE HE WENT TO A GUN SHOW
WHERE YOU DON'T NEED TO GET A
BACKGROUND CHECK.
CLEAR THINGS WE COULD DO, I
BELIEVE WE WOULD AGREE, KEEPING
GUNS DANGEROUS FIREARMS OUT OF
THE HANDS OF CRIMINALS WE OUGHT
TO BE ABLE TO AGREE WITH THAT.
BUT BECAUSE OF SPECIAL INTERESTS
IN WASHINGTON, D.C. AND OTHER
STATE CAPITALS, OUR POLITICAL
LEADERS TEND TO BE PARALYZED ON
THIS ISSUE.
Woodruff: I KNOW YOUR GROUP
SAYS, AMERICANS FOR RESPONSIBLE
SOLUTIONS YOU SAY THERE'S A WAY
TO DO THIS AND STILL RESPECT AND
ADHERE TO THE SECOND AMENDMENT.
IN OTHER WORDS, THERE STILL BE
THE RIGHT TO HAVE A GUN.
SO WHERE DO YOU DRAW THE LINE?
I MEAN THERE'S BEEN AS YOU JUST
SAID, IT'S BEEN SO HARD TO GET
ANYTHING DONE IN WASHINGTON.
>> WELL, RESPONSIBLE CITIZENS OR
RESPONSIBLE GUN OWNERS SHOULD
HAVE ACCESS TO GUNS FOR WHATEVER
REASON THEY WANT.
TO PROTECT THEMSELVES, TO GO
HUNTING, TO GO TARGET-SHOOTING.
I'M A GUN OWNER, GABBY'S A GUN
OWNER.
WE DON'T WANT TO NEGATIVELY
AFFECT ANYBODY'S RIGHTS AND I
DON'T THINK MANY AMERICANS DO.
BUT CLEARLY THE EASY ACCESS WE
PROVIDE TO FELONS AND CRIMINALS
IS SOMETHING THAT REALLY
SHOULDN'T EXIST.
A SIMPLE BACKGROUND CHECK SHOULD
PREVENT NOT EVERYTHING FROM
HAPPENING BUT IT SHOULD PREVENT
SOME CRIMINALS WHO COMMIT CRIMES
WITH THESE WEAPONS FROM GETTING
THEM.
THAT'S PRETTY CLEAR AND OBVIOUS
AND AS AN ORGANIZATION WE'VE
MADE A LOT OF PROGRESS IN A LOT
OF STATES AND WE'RE HOPEFUL THAT
IN TIME WE'RE GOING TO MAKE
PROGRESS ON CAPITOL HILL.
Woodruff: WE HAVE SEEN
SHOOTING AFTER SHOOTING AFTER
SHOOTING IN TALKING TO THE
REPORTER FROM U.S.A. TODAY IT'S
A REGULAR THING AND GUNS ARE THE
WAY PEOPLE TYPICALLY KILL
SOMEONE IN THIS ONE OR KILL
SEVERAL PEOPLE.
WHY HAS PROGRESS BEEN SO
DIFFICULT?
>> WELL, IT'S REALLY BECAUSE OF
A VERY POWERFUL SPECIAL INTEREST
IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
AND IN STATE CAPITALS.
IF YOU WERE TO POLL LET'S DO A
BIG SAMPLE-SIZE NATIONAL POLL ON
SOMETHING LIKE BACKGROUND CHECKS
AND YOU'LL FIND THAT PROBABLY
90% OF AMERICANS THINK YOU
SHOULD GET A BACKGROUND CHECK
BEFORE BUYING A GUN.
YOU KNOW THE UNITED STATES
SENATE COULD NOT PANGS THE --
PASS THE MANCHIN TOOMEY BILL.
WE HAVE 15 TO 20 TIMES THE DEATH
RATE FROM GUN VIOLENCE THAN ANY
INDUSTRIALIZED COUNTRY.
WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO FIX THAT
AND WE CAN FIX THAT.
PEOPLE NEED TO WRITE THEIR
CONGRESSMEN AND GOVERNORS AND IN
TIME WE WILL GET THE COUNTRY
BACK ON TRACK.
>> CAPTAIN KELLY HOW MUCH OF
THIS HAS TO DO WITH ENFORCING
THE LAWS THAT ARE ON THE BOOKS?
THE SHOOTER IN SOUTH CAROLINA
SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN ABLE TO GET
A GUN BUT BECAUSE THE LAWS WERE
NOT FOLLOWED, RECORDS WERE NOT
KEPT, HE WAS ABLE TO GET A GUN.
WHAT ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK SPECIFICALLY
WITH THIS CASE.
BUT CLEARLY, WHEN PEOPLE ARE
PROHIBITED PURCHASERS SOMETIMES
THERE ARE HOLES IN THAT SYSTEM.
SOMETIMES THERE ARE MISTAKES
MADE.
BUT I CAN TELL YOU ONE BIG HOLE
IS THE 40% OF GUN SALES THAT ARE
DONE WITHOUT A BACKGROUND CHECK
THAT YOU CAN DRIVE A TRUCK
THROUGH.
I MEAN THAT'S A HUGE HOLE THAT
CAN BE FILLED, WE CAN FIX THAT
PROBLEM AND WE CAN FIX OTHERS
AND WE'RE NOT GOING TO STOP
EVERY ONE OF THESE THINGS FROM
HAPPENING.
BUT WE COULD -- YOU KNOW WE CAN
PUT A PRETTY BIG DENT IN IT.
I MEAN WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT IT,
33,000 PEOPLE EVERY SINGLE YEAR
DIE FROM GUN VIOLENCE IN THE
UNITED STATES.
AND THAT IS AN ENORMOUS NUMBER.
IMAGINE THE STEPS WE WOULD TAKE
IF SUDDENLY WE HAD 30,000 PEOPLE
DYING IN AIRPLANE ACCIDENTS.
I MEAN WE WOULD GO -- WE WOULD
MAKE AN ENORMOUS EFFORT TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT IT AND WE SHOULD
BE DOING THE SAME THING HERE.
Woodruff: CAPTAIN MARK KELLY
TALKING TO US ABOUT THE EPIDEMIC
OF GUN VIOLENCE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME JUDY THANKS
FOR HAVING ME ON.
IN LAF EID LOUISIANA SAY THE
SURETY JOHN RUSSELL HOUSER
BOUGHT THE HANDGUN HE USED
LEGALLY AT A PAWN SHOP IN
ALABAMA IN 2014.
THE G.I. BILL REPRESENTS
AMERICA'S PROMISE TO ITS
VETERANS.
SINCE 2009, IT HAS PAID THE COST
OF COLLEGE TUITION FOR THOSE WHO
SERVED IN IRAQ OR AFGHANISTAN--
UP TO $21,000 A YEAR OF TAXPAYER
DOLLARS.
TODAY, 40% OF THAT MONEY IS
FLOWING TO FOR-PROFIT SCHOOLS,
ACCORDING TO THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
BUT WHEN VETERANS FINISH THEIR
STUDIES, SOME EMPLOYERS AND
GRADUATE PROGRAMS DON'T
RECOGNIZE OR VALUE THOSE
DEGREES.
FROM THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING AND
"REVEAL," AARON GLANTZ REPORTS
>> Reporter: THREE YEARS AGO,
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID HE WOULD
STOP FOR-PROFIT SCHOOLS FROM
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF SERVICE
MEMBERS AND VETERANS.
>> THEY ARE TRYING TO SWINDLE
AND HOODWINK YOU.
AND TODAY HERE AT FORT STEWART,
WE'RE PUTTING AN END TO IT.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT WAS
RESPONDING TO REPORTS THAT FOR-
PROFIT COLLEGES ENJOYED
VIRTUALLY UNRESTRICTED ACCESS TO
BASES WHERE THEY ENROLLED NEW
STUDENTS AND PROFITED FROM
TAXPAYER MONEY.
>> WE'RE GOING TO UP OUR
OVERSIGHT OF IMPROPER
RECRUITMENT PRACTICES.
WE'RE GOING TO STRENGTHEN THE
RULES ABOUT WHO CAN COME ON POST
AND TALK TO SERVICE MEMBERS.
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT OBAMA
SIGNED AN EXECUTIVE ORDER THAT
PLACED RESTRICTIONS ON
FOR-PROFIT SCHOOLS, TO WEED OUT
DECEPTIVE RECRUITMENT PRACTICES.
THREE YEARS AFTER THE
PRESIDENT'S EXECUTIVE ORDER, NO
SCHOOL RECEIVES MORE G.I. BILL
MONEY THAN THE UNIVERSITY OF
PHOENIX, ACCORDING TO THE
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX IS A
LARGE FOR-PROFIT COLLEGE CHAIN
WITH ABOUT 200,000 STUDENTS-- A
MAJORITY OF WHOM TAKE CLASSES
ONLINE.
WE WANTED TO KNOW WHETHER THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX WAS
COMPLYING WITH THE SPIRIT AND
THE LETTER OF THE RULES
PRESIDENT OBAMA PUT IN PLACE,
AND WHETHER THE FOR-PROFIT
COLLEGE HAD GAINED AN ADVANTAGE
THROUGH ITS RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE MILITARY.
>> UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX WAS ONE
OF THE FIRST SCHOOLS TO CONTACT
ME.
>> Reporter: IRAQ WAR VETERAN
DAN DRESEN WANTED TO BE A SOCIAL
WORKER, SO HE COULD HELP OTHER
VETERANS.
THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX GAVE
HIM COLLEGE CREDIT FOR HIS
MILITARY SERVICE SO HE COULD
GRADUATE QUICKLY.
THAT'S WHAT CONVINCED HIM TO
ENROLL.
HE EVEN GOT CREDITS FOR
MARKSMANSHIP.
FOR LEARNING HOW TO SHOOT A
FIREARM IN THE ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD, YOU GOT COURSE CREDITS
FOR SOCIAL WORK?
>> YES.
>> Reporter: WHEN DRESEN WENT TO
APPLY FOR A MASTER'S IN SOCIAL
WORK AT A STATE UNIVERSITY, THAT
SCHOOL WOULDN'T RECOGNIZE HIS
BACHELOR'S DEGREE.
>> I WAS DEVASTATED.
I CAN'T USE MY DEGREE.
>> Reporter: IT WAS STORIES LIKE
DRESEN'S THAT LED TO THE
PRESIDENT'S EXECUTIVE ORDER.
THE MILITARY FOLLOWED UP WITH
NEW RULES THAT "BAN
INDUCEMENTS"-- INCLUDING
"ENTERTAINMENT"-- FOR "THE
PURPOSE OF SECURING ENROLLMENTS
OF SERVICE MEMBERS."
BUT WHAT CONSTITUTES RECRUITING?
THE UNIVERSITY PAID FOR THE
REALITY T.V. STAR, BIG SMO, TO
ENTERTAIN THE TROOPS.
HERE AT FORT CAMPBELL THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX IS
SPENDING THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS TO
SPONSOR THIS CONCERT.
IT'S ONE OF DOZENS OF EVENTS THE
FOR-PROFIT SCHOOL IS SPONSORING
ON MILITARY BASES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX'S
REPRESENTATIVE WAS INTRODUCED
ON-STAGE AS A FRIEND OF THE
MILITARY.
HE GAVE AWAY ELECTRONIC DEVICES.
15 MINUTES AFTER THE CONCERT
BEGAN, THE ARMY KICKED ME OFF
THE BASE.
AN ARMY PRESS OFFICER TOLD ME
OFF CAMERA THAT I WAS ASKED TO
LEAVE BECAUSE I WAS TALKING ON
CAMERA ABOUT THE MILITARY'S
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF PHOENIX.
ROBERT MUTH IS A FORMER OFFICER
IN THE MARINE CORPS.
HE RUNS A LEGAL CLINIC FOR
VETERANS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
SAN DIEGO.
>> IT LOOKS LIKE YOU HAVE A
CORPORATE ENTITY BUYING ACCESS
TO LOOK LIKE THE PREFERRED OR
THE SELECTED EDUCATIONAL
PROVIDER FOR THE VETERANS OR
SOON-TO-BE VETERANS AT A BASE.
>> Reporter: UNDER PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S 2012 ORDER, SCHOOLS ARE
ALLOWED TO RECRUIT ON BASE ONLY
AS PART OF OFFICIAL, REGULATED,
EDUCATION ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENTS FROM FIVE MILITARY
BASES OBTAINED USING THE FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION ACT SHOW THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX SPONSORED
EVENTS THAT HAD LITTLE TO WITH
EDUCATION.
HUNDREDS OF EVENTS OVER THE LAST
FIVE YEARS.
THE QUESTION REMAINS WAS THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX RECRUITING
AT THESE EVENTS?
AT THE FIVE BASES WE LOOKED AT,
IT PAID THE MILITARY ABOUT A
MILLION DOLLARS FOR THIS ACCESS
THE INVESTMENT IS DWARFED BY THE
$345 MILLION IN G.I. BILL MONEY
IT RECEIVED LAST YEAR.
AND, ACCORDING TO THE DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, WHICH
OVERSEES THE PROGRAM, MORE THAN
$1.2 BILLION SINCE 2009, WHEN
THE NEW G.I. BILL WENT INTO
EFFECT.
THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX ALSO
PRODUCED A COIN.
THAT ITS REPRESENTATIVES HAND
OUT ON MILITARY BASES.
IT INCLUDES THE INSIGNIAS OF
EVERY BRANCH OF THE SERVICE ON
ONE SIDE AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
PHOENIX LOGO ON THE OTHER.
>> THERE'S A LONG TRADITION
WITHIN THE MILITARY OF
COMMANDERS' PROVIDING CHALLENGE
COINS TO INDIVIDUAL TROOPS
WHO'VE DONE SOMETHING GREAT.
IF I'M A 19-YEAR-OLD LANCE
CORPORAL AND I SEE THAT COIN, I
ASSUME THAT THE DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE HAS VIEWED AND VETTED
THAT ORGANIZATION AND APPROVED
THEM IN SOME WAY TO PROVIDE ME
WITH AN EDUCATION.
>> Reporter: MANY ORGANIZATIONS
PRODUCE MILITARY COINS, WE FOUND
THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX WAS
USING MILITARY INSIGNIA WITHOUT
AUTHORIZATION.
WE ASKED THE PENTAGON AND THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX ABOUT THE
COIN.
DAWN BILODEAU, IS THE CHIEF OF
EDUCATION PROGRAMS FOR THE
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.
DOES THAT CONCERN YOU?
>> YES.
THAT WOULD BE, DEPENDING ON
WHERE THAT WAS RECEIVED AND IF
THEY'RE CURRENTLY HANDING THEM
OUT AND IT WAS REPORTED, I WOULD
BE COMPELLED TO TAKE ACTION.
>> Reporter: RETIRED MAJOR
GENERAL SPIDER MARKS IS A DEAN
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX.
>> IF THERE'S AN ISSUE WITH THE
SPECIFIC COINS THAT WE WERE
PASSING OUT, WE'RE GONNA GET TO
THE BOTTOM OF THAT AND THOSE
HAVE BEEN TAKEN OFF THE SHELF.
THEY'RE NOT AVAILABLE.
THEY'RE GONE.
>> Reporter: EVEN SO, MARKS SAYS
THE COIN DOESN'T IMPLY THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX HAS THE
MILITARY'S SEAL OF APPROVAL.
>> THERE ISN'T AN ENDORSEMENT,
IMPLICIT OR EXPLICIT BY THE USE
OF THAT COIN THAT D.O.D. THINKS
ANY DIFFERENTLY ABOUT THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX THAN IT
DOES LOCKHEED MARTIN OR IT DOES
PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE OR
OTHER COMPANIES THAT HAVE
CHALLENGE COINS.
>> Reporter: RYAN HOLLERAN
SERVED 11-MONTHS IN IRAQ.
WHEN HE RETURNED HOME, HE WANTED
TO GET AN EDUCATION.
>> I HAVE A BUNCH OF FRIENDS
WHO'VE GONE THROUGH THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX.
I HAVE COMRADES, BUDDIES WHO I
WENT TO WAR WITH WHO THEIR
PARTNERS WERE GOING TO THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX.
>> Reporter: HE'S HEADED FOR A
NAVAL AIR STATION OUTSIDE
DALLAS TO ATTEND A HIRING OUR
HEROES JOB FAIR.
SPONSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF
PHOENIX.
HOLLERAN AGREED TO TAKE A HIDDEN
CAMERA ONTO THE BASE SO WE COULD
SEE IF THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX
WAS FOLLOWING THE RULES.
THE SPONSORSHIP OF THIS EVENT IS
PERMITTED, AS LONG AS THE SCHOOL
DOESN'T USE THE EVENT TO RECRUIT
STUDENTS.
HOLLERAN ATTENDED A RESEUM
WORKSHOP TAUGHT BY THE SCHOOL.
>> WHEN YOU WALK IN, THERE'S
FOUR OR FIVE FLIERS AND THE
BIGGEST LOGO ON ALL THOSE FLIERS
IS THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX.
>> Reporter: THE PRESENTATION
HAD THE SCHOOL'S BRANDING ON
EVERY SLIDE.
AND PARTICIPANTS WERE REPEATEDLY
ENCOURAGED TO VISIT THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX'S WEBSITE.
MODEL RESUMES USED BY THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX'S TRAINER
INCLUDED A DEGREE FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX, YET THE
MAIN ONLINE CAMPUS THAT 24,000
VETERANS ATTENDED LAST YEAR HAS
A GRADUATION RATE OF 7.3%,
ACCORDING TO THE DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION.
>> IT WASN'T LIKE THEY WERE JUST
MENTIONING, "OH, HERE.
GO GET A HIGHER EDUCATION."
IT'S LIKE, "HEY.
COME, COME BUY MY PRODUCT."
>> Reporter: LAST MONTH, TWO
FORMER UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX
RECRUITERS FILED A LAWSUIT IN A
KENTUCKY CIRCUIT COURT AGAINST
THE SCHOOL ALLEGING THEY WERE
IMPROPERLY FIRED.
THE RECRUITERS SAID HIRING OUR
HEROES WAS JUST A COVER, THAT
THEY WERE REQUIRED TO OPERATE
"STEALTHFULLY".
IT WAS "A TOOL FOR
SURREPTITIOUSLY OBTAINING
PERSONAL INFORMATION AND/OR
PROHIBITED RECRUITMENT
ACTIVITY."
THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX DENIES
THE ALLEGATIONS.
INTERNAL COMPANY DOCUMENTS SOWH
THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX HAS
BEEN TRACKING RECRUITMENT
NUMBERS ON MILITARY BASES,
INCLUDING AT JOB FAIRS AND
ENTERTAINMENT EVENTS, WHERE
RECRUITING IS SUPPOSED TO BE
BANNED BY MILITARY REGULATIONS.
AND SO, EVEN AS THE UNIVERSITY
OF PHOENIX LOST HALF ITS
STUDENTS AMID SCRUTINY FROM
CONGRESS AND THE MEDIA, THE
NUMBER OF IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
VETERANS USING THE G.I. BILL
THERE TRIPLED.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION AND THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
WE CONTACTED THE FORT WORTH
NAVAL AIR STATION ABOUT THE
HIRING OUR HEROES EVENT, THEY
DIRECTED US TO THE PENTAGON.
AGAIN, DAWN BILODEAU.
>> IF ANYONE OF OUR EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS WAS PROVIDING A
WORKSHOP WHERE THEY PROVIDED
THEIR OWN MARKETING MATERIALS,
USED THEIR OWN REFERENCES AND
HAD THEIR SLIDES WITH THEIR
NAME, THAT WOULD BE A REPORTABLE
OFFENCE, A NON-COMPLIANCE
ACTION.
WE WOULD RECEIVE THOSE AND
ADJUDICATE THEM.
>> Reporter: BUT SO FAR, YOU'VE
RECEIVED NO SUCH COMPLAINTS
ABOUT HIRING OUR HEROES?
>> NO, SIR.
>> Reporter: BUT IF IT TURNED
OUT TO BE TRUE, THAT WOULD BE
VERY TROUBLING TO YOU?
>> IT WOULD BE LISTED AND WE
WOULD TAKE ACTION.
>> Reporter: AS FOR MORALE
BOOSTING EVENTS SUCH AS BIG NAME
CONCERTS, BILODEAU SAID THE
PENTAGON IS AWARE OF PAST
IMPROPER RECRUITMENT PRACTICES
AND IS TAKING ACTION.
>> IN THE PAST, IT WAS A
CONCERN, BUT I FEEL VERY
CONFIDENT WITH THE NEW AGREEMENT
THAT WE HAVE IN PLACE THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO ENFORCE THE
REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE IN THERE
AND TAKE ACTION, PLACE SCHOOLS
ON PROBATION WHEN NEEDED, WHICH
IMPACTS THEIR BOTTOM LINE IF
THEY'RE NOT ABLE TO RECRUIT NEW
STUDENTS.
>> Reporter: THE UNIVERSITY OF
PHOENIX'S SPIDER MARKS SAYS THE
SCHOOL IS FOLLOWING THE
PRESIDENT'S EXECUTIVE ORDER AND
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
REGULATIONS.
>> IN TERMS OF COMPLIANCE, WE DO
COMPLIANCE EXCEPTIONALLY WELL.
IF WE'RE GOING TO SPONSOR
MORALE, WELFARE AND RECREATION
EVENTS ON MILITARY
INSTALLATIONS, IT'S TO BENEFIT
THE SERVICE MEMBER AND BRING
ENTERTAINMENT TO THEM,
OPPORTUNITIES WITH BUSINESSES
OFF POST, THAT KIND OF STUFF.
IF WE ARE LOOKING TO FIND
STUDENTS WHO WANT TO GO THROUGH
THE UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX
EXPERIENCE AS THEY TRANSITION OR
WHILE THEY'RE ON ACTIVE DUTY,
THAT'S A SEPARATE AND COMPLETELY
DISTINCT ACTION ON OUR PART.
>> Reporter: DAN DRESEN SAYS HE
WAS BETRAYED BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF PHOENIX.
HE'S ALREADY SPENT MOST OF HIS
G.I. BILL AND, ON TOP OF THAT,
HE'S $9,000 IN DEBT.
>> I FEEL I WASTED MY V.A.
BENEFITS GOING TO THE SCHOOL.
>> Reporter: HE'S STARTING OVER,
AT THIS COMMUNITY COLLEGE IN
SACRAMENTO.
>> IT'S A LITTLE LATE FOR ME
BECAUSE I ALREADY WENT THERE.
I THINK THE OTHER VETERANS
SHOULD GET OUT WHILE THEY STILL
CAN.
>> Reporter: DRESEN HOPES MORE
VETERANS WILL STEP FORWARD TO
COMPLAIN.
IF THAT HAPPENS, HE SAYS,
PERHAPS THE GOVERNMENT WILL STOP
THE FLOW OF G.I. BILL MONEY TO
FOR-PROFIT SCHOOLS.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M AARON
GLANTZ FROM REVEAL IN
SACRAMENTO.
>> Woodruff: AFTER LEARNING
ABOUT "REVEAL"'S REPORT,
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR DICK DURBIN
OF ILLINOIS SENT A LETTER TO THE
PENTAGON ASKING IT TO
INVESTIGATE RECRUITMENT
PRACTICES BY THE UNIVERSITY OF
PHOENIX.
THE D.O.D. SAYS IT TAKES THE
ALLEGATIONS SERIOUSLY AND IS
LOOKING INTO THE MATTER.
STAY WITH US.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
COMEDIAN AZIZ ANSARI ON DATING
IN THE DIGITAL AGE.
BUT NOW TO THE ANALYSIS OF
SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
SO LET'S GO BACK TO THE LEAD
STORY.
DAVID, A STRING OF SHOOTINGS
JUST IN THE LAST FEW WEEKS
INCLUDING THIS ONE LAST NIGHT IN
LAFAYETTE LOUISIANA.
WE TALKED TO MARK KELLY AT THE
TOP OF THE PROGRAM, GABRIELLE
GIFFORDS HUSBAND.
WHAT, IS THERE ANYTHING TO BE
DONE?
>> I'M FOR DOING ALL THE FRONT
CONTROL YOU CAN THINK OF, THE
EVENT CONTROL, SMALL WEAPONS YOU
MIGHT DO SOME GOOD.
I'D BE A LITTLE MODEST ABOUT HOW
MUCH GOOD YOU DO.
THIS HAS BEEN STUDIED QUITE LOT
BY THE CDC, AMA, SERIES OF
STUDIES ALL THE GUN CONTROL
LEGISLATION THAT'S HATCHED IN
THE PAST AND IT'S HARD TO FIND
STRONG EFFECTS.
THERE ARE 250 MILLION GUNS IN
THIS COUNTRY AND AS WE HEARD
EARLIER IN THE PROGRAM, WHERE
THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY.
PEOPLE FIND WAYS TO HAVE GUNS.
I'M FOR IT BUT WE'VE SEEN 50%
REDUCTION IN HOMICIDE IN THIS
COUNTRY IN THE GENERATION AND A
LOT OF OTHER THINGS ARE
EFFECTIVE IN REDUCING GUN
VIOLENCE.
LET'S DO IT BUT DON'T EXPECT IT
TO BE A BIG EFFECT.
>> YOU HAVE SEEN --
>> A LOT TO DO WITH TREATMENT
PROGRAMS WITH THE POLICE
PROGRAMS THERE ARE A LOT OF WAYS
I THINK TO REDUCE VIOLENCE THAT
ARE PRODUCING BIGGER OUTCOMES
THAN THE GUN CONTROL STUFF.
Woodruff: MARK.
>> JUDY, I LISTENED TO MARK
KELLY AND THE POINT HE MADE
ABOUT THE PUBLIC SUPPORT OF
BACKGROUND CHECKS.
HE'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
81% ACTUALLY BYHE T PEW POLL
FAVOR BACKGROUND CHECKS BY A 7
TO WU MARGIN BUT YET IT COULDN'T
PASS THE SENATE.
AND YOU KNOW, THERE'S A SENSE OF
FRUSTRATION AFTER NEWTOWN,
CHARLESTON, LAFAYETTE, WHAT IT'S
GOING TO TAKE?
THE ONLY IDEA THAT STRIKES A
SPARK WITH ME AND I AGREE WITH
DAVID ON THE MEASURES AND I
BELIEVE WE HAVE TOO MANY GUNS,
TOO MANY S MUCH ACCESS TO THEM,
TOO MANY PEOPLE WHO ARE UNSTABLE
WHO SHOULDN'T HAVE THAT ACCESS.
THE SUGGESTION MADE BY DANIEL
PATRICK MOINAHAN INTRODUCED,
SAID WE HAVE ENOUGH GUNS IN THIS
COUNTRY FOR 200 YEARS BUT WE
ONLY HAVE ENOUGH AMMUNITION FOR
TWO MONTHS, FOR FOUR MONTHS, I'M
SORRY.
HE SAID WHY NOT TAX AMMUNITION?
I MEAN NOT '22S FOR TARGET
PRACTICE BUT WHEN YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT AMMUNITION FOR WEAPONS, OF
PERSONA ANDL MASS PERSONAL
DESTRUCTION, YOU KNOW, WE HAVE
TO THINK IN THOSE TERMS.
THERE'S NO QUESTION, THAT THE
DEBATE HAS BEEN WON RIGHT NOW,
NOT PERMANENTLY BUT HAS BEEN WON
BY THE RIFLE ASSOCIATION.
Woodruff: GUN RIGHTS.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE THE EMPHASIS
SHOULD BE, CHOICE SHOULD BE ON
CONTROL.GUNS, GUN OWNERSHIP OR
CONTROL OF GUNS?
15 YEARS AGO, BY A 2 TO 1 MARGIN
PEOPLE WANTED TO CONTROL GUN
OWNERSHIP.
AND NOW, IT'S A QUESTION THAT
CONTROL PEOPLE'S RIGHT TO BEAR A
GUN IS A MAJORITY BELIEVES
THAT'S THE PRIORITY.
Woodruff: THERE'S JUST SUCH A
GAP THOUGH DAVID THERE'S THIS
OUTRAGE AFTER THESE SHOOTINGS
YET WE KEEP HAVING THE SAME
CONVERSATION, THERE'S NOTHING TO
BE DONE.
>> AS I SAY PUBLIC POLICY IS
HARD AND GETTING CHANGE IS HARD.
AND YOU KNOW, I THINK GETTING
THE BACKGROUND CHECKS IN ANY OF
THESE CASES REINFORCEMENT WOULD
HAVE HELPED, I'M NOT SURE.
A LOT OF THESE GUNS WERE
ACQUIRED LEGALLY, SOMETIMES
FLAWS IN THE SYSTEM.
I TELL YOU THE THING I THINK
NEEDS TO BE DONE AND THIS IS NOT
A GOVERNMENT THING, THIS IS A
COMMUNITY THING.
ONE THING THAT THESE CASES HAVE
IN COMMON WHETHER IT'S THE
HOUSEHOLD KILLINGS OR THE RACIST
KILLING OR THE PERVERSE YOUNG
MAN COME WE ALL KNOW PEOPLE IN
OUR COMMUNITIES AND IF YOU SEE A
KID WHO'S GROWN INCREASINGLY
ISOLATED, WHOSE VIEWS ARE GOING
INCREASINGLY EXTREME THEN ACT.
AND THAT IS ONE WAY, AND YOU
KNOW, WE ALL HAVE THESE WEBS OF
SOCIAL NETWORKS.
PREVENT SOMETHING FROM
HAPPENING, I BLEACH THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT COULD HAVE A
POSITIVE IMPACT.
>> WE HEARD FROM THE U.S.A.
TODAY REPORTER, THERE IS A
PATTERN AND IT'S TYPICALLY A MAN
AND A YOUNG MAN.
THE ADMINISTRATION FACING AN
UPHILL BATTLE SELLING THIS IRAN
NUCLEAR DEAL.
WHAT KIND OF JOB ARE THEY DOING
DEFENDING IT, COULD THEY --
COULD CONGRESS END UP KILLING
THIS THING?
>> I THINK CONGRESS A GOOD BET
AS WE MENTIONED LAST WEEK, THAT
CONGRESS WILL VOTE TO REJECT IT.
BUT I -- I THINK THE
MINIADSTRATION IS RIGHTLY AND
LOGICALLY CONCENTRATING ITS
EFFORTS ON NOT WINNING
REPUBLICANS.
PEOPLE LIKE JEFF FLAIK, SENATOR
FROM ARIZONA SAYS HE HAS AN OPEN
MIND, DEMONSTRATED IT IN THE
PAST, BUT THE EMPHASIS HAS TO BE
ON DEMOCRATS, TO PRAYED
DEMOCRATS, WHY THEY SHOULD
SUPPORT THE AGREEMENT AND THE
STRONGEST ARGUMENT IS THAT THERE
IS NO ALTERNATIVE AND TO BRING
IN THE FACT THAT PEOPLE OF GREAT
SUBSTANCE, FROM BRENT SCOCROFT
TO DIPLOMATIC GIANTS LIKE THOMAS
PICKERING AND LEE HAMILTON, AND
CROCKER ARE SUPPORTING IT.
SO I REALLY THINK THAT IT'S
NOT -- THIS IS THE ALMIGHTY BUT
WHAT IS THE ALTERNATIVE?
AND I THINK THAT'S THE CASE THAT
THEY'RE MAKING, THEY'RE TRYING
TO PERSUADE PROBABLY 145
DEMOCRATS IN THE HOUSE TO STICK
WITH THE PRESIDENT.
Woodruff: BUT IN THE MEANTIME
IT'S A REAL BUZZ SAW THEY'RE
FACING ISN'T IT?
>> IT'S NOT EXACTLY LEADING FROM
A POSITION OF STRENGTH.
PURPOSE OF LEADERSHIP IN
GOVERNMENT IS TO PROVIDE THE
COURY NTWITH GOOD OPTIONS.
AND THEY HAVE GOTTEN IN A
SITUATION WHERE WE HAVE BAD
OPTIONS.
TO ME, THE WORST PART ABOUT THE
TREATY IS IT WILL GIVE IRAN
MAYBE 150 BILLION, MAYBE AS HIGH
AS $700 BILLION OF REVENUE TO
WHICH THEY CAN SPREAD THEIR
TERROR THROUGH THE TERROR ARMIES
THEY'RE ALREADY USING.
IN THE SHORT TERM, WHETHER IT'S
NUCLEAR WEAPONS IT WILL
DESTABILIZE THE MIDDLE EAST.
THEY ARE NOT STUPID TO SAY THE
ALTERNATIVE IS WORSE, THAT IF WE
DO THIS, THE SANCTIONS, FRANCE
WANTS TO SELL NUCLEAR STUFF,
RUSSIA IS CERTAINLY EAGER TO
SELL NUCLEAR STUFF TO THE
IRANIANS.
IF THE U.S. DOES REJECT IT, IT
WILL GET WORSE.
SO THEIR OPTION IS, THEIR
ARGUMENT IS NOT THAT THE TREATY
IS SO GREAT, BUT THE ALTERNATIVE
IS WORTH WORSE -- WORSE.
MY GUESS AT THE END OF THE DAY
IS THE DEMOCRATS WHO ARE IN PLAY
HERE WILL NOT OPT FOR THAT WORSE
ALTERNATIVE.
I COULD ARGUE THAT THEY SHOULD
BUT.
Woodruff: DO YOU THINK
DEMOCRATS WOULD CO.E AROUND?
>> DEMOCRATS ARE BEING SMART
POLITICALLY BY SAYING THEY'RE
OPEN, THEY'RE LISTENING THERE'S
NO POINT IN TAKING A POSITION
UNTIL THEY HAVE TO.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S MANY OPEN
MINDS ON EITHER SIDE.
THE MONEY IS IRAN'S MONEY.
IT ISN'T LIKE WE'RE WRITING A
CHECK TO THEM.
IT HAS BEEN FROZEN AND I THINK
THAT -- YOU KNOW, THAT HAS TO BE
UNDERSTOOD.
SO I -- YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK
THERE IS AN ALTERNATIVE.
I THINK QUITE FRANKLY THAT PRIME
MINISTER NETANYAHU HURT HIMSELF
AND HIS CAUSE BY PUSHING SO HARD
FOR MILITARY ACTION AGAINST IRAN
AND BY INTRUDING IN THE UNITED
STATES ELECTION, ON THE ROMNEY
SIDE AND USING THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES AS A CAMPAIGN
SPOT TO RUN AGAINST IRAN.
HE JUST PUT HIMSELF AND ISRAEL
QUITE HONESTLY IN AN UNTENABLE
POSITION.
Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
HILLARY CLINTON.
DAVID, E-MAILS, CONGRESS HAS
THIS SPECIAL COMMITTEE IN THE
HOUSE IS COMING AFTER HER NOW
THEY'RE SAYING THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE, THEY'VE ASKED THE
DEPARTMENT TO LOOK INTO WHETHER
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION WAS
SHARED THAT SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN.
IS SHE IN REAL JEOPARDY
POLITICALLY OR LEGALLY?
>> I ASSUME SHE SHARED
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
IT WAS ALL ON THIS PRIVATE
SERVER.
THERE IS SO MUCH CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION IN GOVERNMENT, I
ASSUME SOME DID GET INTO THEM.
THAT IS NOT A CAREER-KILLER,
THAT'S NOT A PRESIDENT CANDIDACY
KILLER.
BUT IT IS ABOUT HER CHARACTER
AND IT IS ABOUT WHY THERE WAS
THE PRIVACY OF THE SERVER, HER
UNWILLINGNESS TO RELEASE THE
SERVER NOW WHICH PEOPLE WANT TO
GET AHOLD OF.
DELETING ALL THE E-MAILS.
I DON'T THINK HOWEVER THIS
SHAKES OUT IT WILL BE SOMETHING
TO END HER CANDIDACY.
BUT NO QUESTION THE SUSTAINED
AND CONTINUED INVESTIGATIONS ARE
STAINS.
I FRANKLY DON'T HAVE CLARITY ON
WHAT KIND OF INVESTIGATIONS IS
ABOUT TO HAPPEN IN ALL THE
REPORTING THERE IS A LOT OF
PASSIVE VOICE SO YOU DON'T QUITE
KNOW HOW MUCH SHE'S ACTUALLY
BEING INVESTIGATED.
SO THAT'S UNCLEAR.
IT WILL SHAKE OUT THE NEXT FEW
DAYS MAYBE.
BUT IT'S STILL A LONG RUNNING
STAIN THAT GOES TO A CORE
CONCERN PEOPLE HAVE ABOUT HER
WHICH IS OPENNESS TRANSPARENCY
AND TRUSTWORTHINESS.
Woodruff: DAVID.
>> THERE'S TWO CLINTONS, THE
CLINTON OF GREAT BOOM, BALANCED
BUDGET HAPPY AND PROSPEROUS AND
OPTIMISTIC AND CONFIDENT AMERICA
AND THERE'S THE CLINTON MEMORIES
OF WHITEWATER AND THOSE LAW FIRM
BILLING RIGHTS THAT WERE
MIRACULOUSLY DISCOVERED.
ALL OF THIS COMES BACK AND I
THINK IT HURT HER IN 2007 WHICH
IS RUN AGAINST BARACK OBAMA.
IT HURT BOTH AL GORE AND JOHN
KERRY.
GEORGE BUSH WAS SEEN AS MORE
HONEST AND MORE LIKABLE
PERSONALLY THAN EITHER OF THEM.
THAT'S THE LAST TIME THE
DEMOCRATS LOST THE WHITE HOUSE
TWO TIMES IN A ROW.
I THINK IT WAS A PROBLEM, SHE
WAS TRYING TO AVOID INTENSE
SCRUTINY BY HAVING A PRIVATE
SERVER AND SHE ENDS UP GETTING
MORE INTENSE SCRUTINY.
I THINK ONE SALVATION SHE HAS IS
REPUBLICANS WILL OVERPLAY, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS IN PARTICULAR WILL
OVERPLAY THEIR HAND WITH THEIR
HEARINGS AND SORT OF AN
INQUISITIONAL ATTITUDE AND AIR.
IT'S NOT A HELP, IT CERTAINLY
BRINGS BACK UNPLEASANT MEMORIES.
Woodruff: 40 SECONDS LEFT.
DONALD TRUMP.
HE'S GOT INTO A BIG FUSS WITH
JOHN McCAIN, ASSAULTED JOHN
McCAIN LAST WEEKEND, LINDSAY
GRAHAM THIS WEEK.
BUT DONALD TRUMP IS STILL ALIVE
AND WELL AND OUT ON THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL.
WILL HE STAY?
>> EVENTUALLY HE'LL RUN AFTER
THE REPUBLICANS, I HAVE TO SAY
THE SHOW WILL CLOSE, HE MAKES
JERRY SPRING ARE LOOK LIKE
MACHEMASTERPIECE THEATER.
MITT ROMNEY SUCH A STRAIGHT
LACED PARTY.
Woodruff: TEN SECONDS.
>> DONALD TRUMP SHAME ON US.
HE'S THE CATNIP, WE CAN'T STAY
AWAY FROM HIM.
HE WILL NEVER BE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
HE MADE A TERRIBLE MISTAKE GOING
AFTER JOHN McCAIN.
JOHN McCAIN WASN'T A HERO
BECAUSE HE WAS CAPTURED, HE WAS
A HERO BECAUSE HE BE AVOIDED
EARLY RELEASE, DONALD TRUMP
AVOIDED CAPTURE BY STAYING AT
STUDIO 54.
>> MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
WE THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT: THE JOY OF
MODERN ROMANCE, ALL JUST A CLICK
AWAY.
WHERE TODAY'S SINGLES CAN SEARCH
FOR PARTNERS THROUGH A DIGITAL
WORLD OF ONLINE OR MOBILE DATING
SITES.
IT CAN SEEM SO EASY AND YET SO
POTENTIALLY AWKWARD.
ADD IN THE SPEED AND INSTANT
CONNECTION OF TEXTING AND
PHONES, AND ACCORDING TO ONE OF
TODAY'S LEADING YOUNG COMICS,
AZIZ ANSARI, YOU GET A NEW AGE
OF ANXIETY OF THE HEART.
JEFFREY BROWN CAUGHT UP WITH
HIM.
>> SPENDING A LOT OF TIME
TOGETHER AND EVERYTHING YEAH I
KNOW.
I WANT TO KEEP DOING THAT TILL
YOU'RE DEAD.
Woodruff: AZIZ ANSARI GAINED
WIDESPREAD ATTENTION ON PARKS
AND RECREATI.ON
>> LIFE IS WHAT YOU MAKE OF IT.
Woodruff: NOW 32-YEAR-OLD
COMEDIAN AND ACTOR IS SELLING
OUT LARGE VENUES INCLUDING
MADISON SQUARE GARDEN FOR
NETFLIX FINDING THE LAUGHTER IN
THE PAIN OF DATING.
>> NO ONE WANTS TO COMMIT TO
(BLEEP) BECAUSE THEY'RE
TERRIFIED THAT SOMETHING
BETTER'S COMING ALONG.
Woodruff: HE'S TURN I.
Brown: HE'S TURNED IT INTO A
BOOK.
THE REALITIES HE'S SEEN IN HIS
OWN LIFE.
>> FOR INSTANCE YOU TEXT SOMEONE
THEY DON'T WRITE BACK.
YOU WONDER WHY THEY DIDN'T WRITE
BACK, THEY'RE BUSY, AND THEN YOU
LOOK ON FACEBOOK, THEY'RE
POSTING A RECIPE FOR AN OMELET.
I DIDN'T EVEN HAVE THAT DILEMMA
TAKEN, 15 YEARS AGO, THAT DIDN'T
EXIST.
SITTING STARING AT THIS LITTLE
THING WAITING FOR SOMETHING.
Brown: AZIZ THINKS THE SHEER
NUMBER OF CHOICES FOR PEOPLE
NOWADAYS IS DRIVING PEOPLE
CRAZY.
ERIC KLINEE KLINENBERG AND HE WD
TOGETHER.
>> LIKE AN OVERALL SHIFT IN THIS
KIND OF HOW OUR CULTURE VIEWS
MARRIAGE.
AND YOU KNOW, YOU LOOK AT -- WE
LOOKED AT THESE STUDIES THAT
THEY FOUND FROM LIKE THE 1930s
IN LIKE PHILADELPHIA, AND YOU
KNOW, PEOPLE, MARRIED PEOPLE
THAT LIVED IN A VERY CLOSE
PROXIMITY TO WHERE THEY LIVE
LIKE PEOPLE, MARRIED PEOPLE THAT
LIVED A FEW BLOCKS AWAY, LIKE 1
OUT OF 3 PEOPLE MARRIED SOMEONE
THAT LIVED LIKE IN A SIX BLOCK
RADIUS.
80% -- THE SAME BUILDING NOW
LIKE IT'S NOT THEY DON'T EVEN DO
THOSE STUDIES ANYMORE BECAUSE IT
DOESN'T HAPPEN.
Brown: SO WHERE TOSS THE
TECHNOLOGY FIT INTO ALL OF THIS?
DOES IT MAKE HARDER EASIER?
>> WELL THE TECHNOLOGY STUFF I
THINK, YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY LIKE
ONLINE DATING IS A TREMENDOUS
PRESENCE ON HOW PEOPLE MEET NOW.
1 OUT OF 3 PEOPLE THAT ARE
MARRIED NOW THEY MET THEIR
SPOUSES THROUGH ONLINE DATING.
AND YOU KNOW YOU CAN LOOK AT
THAT, SOME PEOPLE THAT DO ONLINE
DATING IT'S VERY FRUSTRATING
VERY ANNOYING.
YOU'RE MEETING PEOPLE YOU DON'T
LIKE, SORTING THROUGH THESE
MESSAGES, THIS IS KIND OF BECOME
BURDEN FOR PEOPLE BUT THEN THE
OTHER WAY THE VAST QUANTITY OF
LOVE THAT HAS BEEN CREATED IN
THE WORLD THAT WOULDN'T HAVE
EXISTED WITHOUT ONLINE.
>> IF YOU THINK ABOUT CAVE MEN
RIGHT?
THE ANXIETY, THE YOU KNOW, THE
UNCERTAINTY, THE AWKWARDNESS OF
RELATIONSHIPS, I WOULD THINK
CAVEMEN WERE WORRIED ABOUT WHAT
WAS GOING ON IN THE CAVES.
YOU READ A JANE AUSTIN NOVEL AND
THE ANXIETY OF WAITING FOR
MR. DARCY AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
>> THE OLD ISSUES, NEW FORMS,
AND IT'S LIKE OKAY, YOU KNOW NOW
WHEN YOU HAVE A PARTNER, RIGHT,
LIKE THERE'S WEIRD THINGS THAT
DIDN'T EXIST BEFORE IT'S LIKE
YOUR DIGITAL WORLD KIND OF
MELTS, LIKE YOU GLANCE AT YOUR
WIFE'S PHONE AND THERE'S LIKE
SEVEN TEXTS FROM A GUY NAMED
CHRISTOPHER.
YOU'RE LIKE THIS IS WEIRD, WHO
IS CHRISTOPHER.
THERE'S TEXTS THE NEXT DAY FROM
CHRISTOPHER, CHRISTOPHER IS
TEXTING MY WIFE QUITE A BIT.
MAYBE IN CAVE MAN TIMES A GUY
NAMED CHRISTOPHER POKED HIS HEAD
IN BUT IT'S A NEW VERSION OF
THAT.
WOULD IT BE WEIRD IF I CHECKED
MY WIFE'S PHONE, I SEE A MESSAGE
FROM CHRISTOPHER IS OPEN.
DO I READ THE MESSAGE, SHOULD I
READ IT?
NEW INTERESTING THINGS THAT
PEOPLE HAVE TO DEAL WITH.
Brown: HERE'S THE AMAZING
THING THOUGH, AZIZ ANSARI IS
HIMSELF A PRODUCT OF AN ARRANGED
MARRIAGE OF HIS PARENTS WHO GOT
MARRIED IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
>> WEEK, SIX MONTHS, REALLY
QUICK.
ESPECIALLY FROM WH PEATOPLE DO
NOW.
Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF
THE LEFNS OF YOUR PARENTS --
LFNPARENTS LESSONS OF YOUR PARES
MARRIAGE?
>> THE INTERESTING THING ABOUT
THOSE ARRANGED MARRIAGES, A LOT
OF TIMES IT'S SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE
IT STARTS AT A SIM ARE AND
BUILDS TO A BOIL.
I'M IN IT, I'M GOING TO HAVE A
FAMILY WITH THIS PERSON.
I'D SAY MY PARENTS HAVE SEEN MY
OBSERVATIONS, THEY'RE REALLY IN
LOVE AND I THINK THEIR
RELATIONSHIP HAS GOTTEN BETTER
KIND OF GROWN TOGETHER, RAISED
KIDS TOGETHER AND EVERYTHING.
THERE'S SO MUCH SOCIAL SCIENCE
THAT SHOWS THAT SPENDING TIME
WITH PEOPLE AND GETTING TO KNOW
THEM THAT'S HOW YOU GET TO THE
CONNECTIONS THAT LEAD TO THE
BOILING WATER.
IF YOU HAVE ONE DRINKWITH
SOMEONE, GO ON BORING DATE WITH
SOMEONE, THAT IS NOT REALLY FUN.
I DON'T THINK YOU GAVE THEM A
CHANCE.
Brown: FOR RECORD, AZIZ SAYS
HE IS IN A LONG TERM COMMITTED
RELATIONSHIP BUT HE TOLD ME HE'S
NOT ABOVE CHECKING HIS
GIRLFRIEND'S PHONE TO SEE IF
THAT CHRISTOPHER CHARACTER IS
TEXTING YET AGAIN.
FOR NewsHOUR, I'M JEFFREY
BROWN.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: 50 YEARS AGO THIS
WEEKEND, BOB DYLAN "PLUGGED IN."
FOR THE FIRST TIME ON STAGE.
HIS LEGENDARY PERFORMANCE AT THE
NEWPORT FOLK FESTIVAL SHOCKED
MANY, AND THE STORY REVERBERATES
TODAY.
SO TO COMMEMORATE THE EVENT, WE
COMPILED EIGHT THINGS YOU DIDN'T
KNOW ABOUT THE ELECTRIC GUITAR.
THAT'S ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALSO THERE, RELIVE ONE OF THE
ICONIC HIP-HOP ALBUMS OF THE
1980S.
ALL DAY TODAY, SEATTLE STATION
K.E.X.P. PAID HOMAGE TO THE
BEASTIE BOYS CLASSIC "PAUL'S
BOUTIQUE," WITH SONGS AND
INTERVIEWS, WHICH WE'VE EMBEDDED
ON OUR WEBSITE:
pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: SUMMER POLITICS:
WHEN NOTHING GOES AS PREDICTED.
WHEN DONALD TRUMP CAN VISIT THE
U.S. MEXICO BORDER WEARING GOLF
SHOES.
WHEN BERNIE SANDERS CAN GET
BOO-ED AT A LIBERAL CONFERENCE.
WHEN HILLARY CLINTON CAN'T STAY
AHEAD OF HER EMAILS AND WHEN HER
HUSBAND AND HER OPPONENT'S
BROTHER CAN BE FRIENDS THROUGH
IT ALL.
WE TELL YOU WHAT DOES AND
DOESN'T MATTER TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY: DOES THE SO-
CALLED SHARING ECONOMY REALLY
WORK FOR ITS WORKERS?
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.